## Something You Are
*Biometrics* measure some physical characteristic of the user to confirm their identity. Biometrics are the **strongest** authentication methods because an attacker cannot falsify them as easily. 

* Fingerprints
* Vein Matching/Palm Scanners
* Retina Imaging (Scans the blood vessels in the eye)
* Iris Scanners (Scans the iris's pattern)
* Facial Recognition
* Voice Recognition
* Galt Analysis (How they walk)

> [!REMEMBER]
> Retina and Iris Scanning is the strongest biometric authentication, Iris scanning is preferred as it does not need physical contact.

##### Biometric Efficacy Rates
The biometric *efficacy* rate refers to the performance of the system under ideal conditions.

* False acceptance: accepted bad guy
* False rejection: rejected good guy
* True acceptance: accepted good guy
* True rejection: rejected bad guy

- **FRR (False Rejection Rate):** The rate at which the system incorrectly rejects an authorized user.
- **FAR (False Acceptance Rate):** The rate at which the system incorrectly accepts an unauthorized user.
- **CER (Crossover Error Rate):** The point at which the **FRR and FAR are equal**. It represents the overall accuracy of the biometric system.
    

> [!NOTE]
> **A lower CER means the biometric system is more accurate**, because it indicates both fewer false rejections and fewer false acceptances.


## Something You Have
Basically something you can physically hold.

##### Smart Card Authentication
Credit card sized cards that have an embedded microchip and a certificate. Users can insert this card into a smart card reader which will read all the information and do a certificate-based authentication. The requirements of a smart card are:

1. Embedded certificate
2. Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), for issuing and managing the certificates

Smart cards are often paired with another factor of authentication. A user could also be prompted to insert their password, this way an attacker cannot simply steal the card. He would also need to know the user's password.

##### Security Keys
A *security key* is an electronic device about the size of a car key. Used to authenticate to systems. 

The security key contains cryptographic information that completes the authentication process. Uses a USB connector to connect to the computers.

##### Hard Tokens
A *hard token* or hardware token, is an electronic device about the size of a car key. This device has an LED screen which displays a *one time password (OTP)* which the user will need to enter. This proves that the user in in possession of the device. 

##### Soft Tokens
A *soft token* or software token is an applications that urns on a user's phone and generates one-time passwords in the same way that hard tokens display them on their LED Screens. e.g. google authenticator.

the *HMAC-based One-Time Password (HOTP)* algorithm generate a new password when the user wants to. *Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP)* algorithm change their code based upon the current time, they change every 30-60 seconds.


> [!REMEMBER]
> 
> HOTP and TOTP are open-source standards used to create one-time-use passwords. HOTP creates a one-time-use password that does not expire until it is used, and TOTP creates a one-time password that expires after 30-60 seconds. Both can be used as software tokens for authentication.

##### SMS/Push Notifications
*SMS notifications* are used to make users enter the code that is being sent to them, this is not recommended anymore as it can be exploited by attackers, if the phone is already stolen this is not secure. 

*Push Notifications* instead are used for the user to click on them to verify things on a service or website for example by confirming their email.

## Something You Know
These is often the least secure form of authentication, because knowledge can be stolen. If i can find a user's password I can just login as them. Because of this, a list of rules is commonly used for password authentication.

* Hash all passwords
* Use [[3. MFA Authenticaion|Multi Factor Authentication]]
* Require password to be complex; longer than eight characters, include special characters.
* Tell users to not use the same password for everything

##### Password Length & Complexity
One of the most common password requirements is the length, the longer a password the more possible possible passwords there can be, which slows down brute force attacks. Password can be longer than eight characters and still be insecure, take for example the following password: **SecurePassword123**, a brute force attack may never crack it but a dictionary attack will instantly crack it. 

##### Password Expiration/Age
A *password expiration* setting identifies when users must change their password. These days, the best practice for password security is **not** to have passwords expire. This is because users are more likely to use strong, secure passwords if they do not need to keep changing them. This advice is only true if the org uses MFA.

##### Password History and Reuse
Many users would prefer to use one password for everything, in we have a password expiration policy in place we do not want users to pick a password they have already used in the past. 

A *password history* file system remember past passwords and prevents users from reusing them. It is common for these systems to remember the last 24 passwords and prevent users from reusing them until they have used 24 new passwords.

A *minimum password age* setting makes it so users cannot change their password immediately, otherwise users would just set 24 new passwords and go back to their original password. 

##### Password Managers
A password manager (or password vault) is a single source designed to keep most of your passwords. Instead of requiring you to memorize many different passwords, you only need to remember the password to open the vault. It keeps these passwords in an encrypted format, preventing unauthorized users from seeing them.

##### Knowledge-Based Authentication
Some orgs use *knowledge-based authentication (KBA)* to verify the identify of individuals. There are two types: static KBA and  dynamic KBA

1. **Static KBA** is used to verify your identity when you have forgotten your password. What is your first dog's name. etc.
2. **Dynamic KBA** identifies people without an account. Used for high-risk transactions. The site queries public and private data sources to craft multiple choice questions only the user would know. Often these have a time constraint to avoid attackers from doing research. When was your home build? Where have you previously lived?

##### Implementing Account Lockout Policies
Accounts will typically have lockout policies which prevent users from guessing the password. Too many attempts and the account will lock the account.

* **Account Lockout Threshold**: The maximum number of times a user can enter the wrong password. Any failed attempt after this will lock the account. 
* **Account Lockout Duration**: How long the account will remain locked for. If the duration is set to 0 this means the account will be locked until its unlocked by an admin.

##### Changing Default Passwords
When installing a system of service they may include a default account username and password it is important to change these as soon as possible to prevent an attacker guessing them.


## Something You Are
The *somewhere you are* authentication attribute identifies a user’s location. Geolocation is a group of technologies used to identify a user’s location and is the most common method used in this factor. Many authentication systems use the Internet Protocol (IP) address for geolocation. The IP address provides information on the country, region, state, city, and sometimes even the zip code.

If the IP address is coming from a location where the employee is not residing it can get blocked. VPNs can be used to attack this but the VPN IP will get detected. [[1. Basic Network Concepts#Addresses|MAC]] addresses can be used inside the company, can be used so users can only login to certain computers.