*Risk* is the likelihood that a threat will exploit a vulnerability. The result of a risk is a negative impact on the organization,

When evaluating a risk we need to look at two parameters: The ***impact*** and the ***probability*** of that risk occurring.

## Threats
Threats come in different forms, including the following:

* **[[1. Understanding Threat Actors#Threat Actor Types|Malicious  Human Threats]]**: Could be an script kiddie or a professional hacker.
* **Accidental Human Threats**: Users can delete or corrupt data, or accidentally change configurations.
* **Environmental Threats**: This includes long-term power failures, hurricanes, floods, storms.

A *threat assessment* helps an organization identify and categorize threats. Threats are found and labeled by their impact and probability, the organization will implement risk mitigation for the most critical risks.

## Risk Management Strategies
*Risk management* is the practice of identifying, analyzing, monitoring and limiting risks to a manageable level. It ***does not eliminate risks*** but limits or mitigates them. 

##### Terms
There are several basic terms that we should understand related to risk management:

* **Risk Awareness**: The acknowledgement that risks exist and need to be mitigated.
* **Inherent Risk**: Risk that exists _before_ you apply any security controls or mitigation efforts.
* **Residual Risk**: Risk that remains after controls and mitigations
* **Control Risk**: Risk that exists if in-place controls do not adequately manage them.
* **Risk Appetite**: How much risk an organization is willing to accept.

##### Risk Management Strategies
There are multiple risk management strategies available to an organization. They include:

* **Avoidance**: You can avoid the risk by simply not providing the service or doing risky things.
* **Mitigation**: You implement controls to reduce risks. Can reduce the vulnerabilities or impact
* **Acceptance**: When the cost of a control outweighs risk, you can accept the risk. 
* **Transference**: Transfers or shares the risk with another entity, for example insurance.
* **Cybersecurity Insurance**: More complete compared to regular insurance policies.

## Risk Assessment Types
When performing a risk assessment we must first identify the *assets* and *asset values (AV)*.  After this step we can start identifying *threats* and *vulnerabilities* that affects these assets as well as the *probability* of an attacker exploiting it.  A risk assessment attempts to identify the impact of potential threats, identify the potential harm and give recommendations on what controls to implement to mitigate the risk. 

A *risk control assessment* examines the organizations known risks and evaluate how good the current controls are often done by a ***third-party***. The *risk control self-assessment*, same as a risk control assessment but done by employees.

* **Quantitative Risk Assessment**: Measures risk using a monetary amount. *EF* is the portion of the asset that would be damaged if the risk manifests. The *SLE* (*AV x EF*)  identifies each loss’s cost, the *ARO* identifies the number of events in a typical year, and the *ALE* identifies the expected annual loss from the risk. You calculate the *ALE* as *SLE* × *ARO*.
* **Qualitative Risk Assessment**: Uses judgment to categorize risks based on the likelihood of occurrence and impact.

## Risk Analysis
Risk assessments use a variety of techniques to analyze risks. Generically, a risk analysis identifies potential issues that could negatively impact an organization’s goals and objectives.

* **Key Risk Indicators (KRIs)**: Metric used to measure and monitor the level of risk associated with an asset. Metrics could be reaction time, how many security incidents does it have per month. This helps management identify trends.
* **Risk Registers**: A comprehensive document listing known information about risks such as the risk owner. It typically includes risk scores along with recommended security controls to reduce the risk scores. A risk matrix plots risks onto a chart.
* **Risk Matrix**: Places risks onto a chart of rows and columns, showing probability and impact. As a simple example, it can plot the likelihood of occurrence data against the impact of a risk,

## Supply Chain Risks
A potential indicator of a supply chain attack is a disruption in the supply chain. Organizations can eliminate the supply chain as a third-party risk simply by ensuring that it has multiple sources for everything that it needs.