Security administrators use tools to test their networks. Two common categories of tools are vulnerability scanners, which check for weaknesses, and penetration tests, which attempt to exploit the vulnerabilities.

## Vulnerability Assessments
The overall goal of a *vulnerability assessment* is to assess the security posture of systems and networks. A vulnerability assessment often has four steps

1. Identify assets and capabilities.
2. Prioritize assets based on value.
3. Identify vulnerabilities and prioritize them
4. Recommend controls to mitigate serious vulnerabilities.

## Network Scanners
A network scanner uses various techniques to gather information about hosts within a network. As an example, Nmap is a popular network scanning tool. They typically use the following methods:

* **ARP ping scan**: Any host that receives an [[1. Basic Network Concepts#^bc4da6|ARP packet]] with its IP address responds with its MAC address. Used to know if the host is up.
* **SYN stealth scan**: Sends a SYN packet and waits for the server to send the second part of a TCP three-way handshake. If it receives it the scanner sends a RST packet to close it.
* **Port Scan**: Scans for open ports.
* **Service Scan**: Similar to a port scan but also aims to identify protocols and services running on the port. 
* **OS Detection**: Analysis of the received packets can be used to fingerprint the OS. Things like windows size in a TCP packet or the TTL.

## Vulnerability Scanning
Security administrators often use a *vulnerability scanner* to identify which systems are susceptible to attacks. A vulnerability scanner can identify vulnerabilities, misconfigured systems, and the lack of security controls such as up-to-date patches. Vulnerability scans may be configured as passive and have little impact on a system during a test. In contrast, a penetration test is intrusive and can potentially compromise a system.

*Credentialed scans* run under the context of a valid account and can get more detailed information on targets, such as the software versions of installed applications. They are typically more accurate than non-credentialed scans and result in fewer false positives.

## Configuration Review
A *configuration compliance scanner* performs a configuration review of systems to verify that they are configured correctly. Often automated or run as scripts. They also need to have access to credentials to find everything.



