*Penetration Testing* actively assesses deployed security controls within a system or network. It begins with a enumeration stage, then vulnerabilities are exploited by simulating a real attack. There are four major categories.

1. **Physical Penetration Testing**: Involves gaining unauthorized access to physical spaces, like data centers. The goal is to identify weaknesses in physical security controls.
2. **Offensive Penetration Testing**: Simulates a real-world attack. Involves exploiting vulnerabilities, lateral movement and privilege escalation.
3. **Defensive Penetration Testing**: Evaluates an organization's security controls to identify areas where they may be vulnerable to an attack. Can involve firewall rules analysis and [[2. Checking for Vulnerabilities#Configuration Review|configuration reviews]].
4. **Integrated Penetration Testing**: Combines elements of all three categories. Conducted by a team of experts.

## Rules of Engagement
Used to obtain authorization before beginning any vulnerability or penetration testing. This outlines the *rules of engagement*. If the test causes a system to break but the action was within the rules, it will lead to less repercussions.

## Reconnaissance 
Penetrations testers use *reconnaissance* or *footprinting* during the initial phase. 

* **Passive reconnaissance**: Does not actively engage the target, so it is not illegal. Uses OSINT tools to gain information.
* **Active reconnaissance**: Actively engage the target system and probes it for information.

## Footprinting Versus Fingerprinting
*Footprinting* is broad, passive reconnaissance to discover the target's attack surface (e.g., domains, IPs). *Fingerprinting* is active probing of specific systems to identify detailed attributes like OS type, versions, and services on open ports.

## Penetration Test Process
Generally penetration tests follow 6 different stages

1. Enumeration and Footprinting
2. Initial Exploitation
3. Persistence
4. Privilege Escalation
5. Pivoting

## Visibility in Penetration Tests
It’s common to identify testing based on the testers’ level of knowledge before starting the test. These testers could be internal employees or external security professionals working for a third-party organization hired to perform the test. Testing types are defined based on how much the testers know about the environment. The three types of testing are:

1. Unknown environment testing, or black box testing
2. Known environment testing, or white box testing
3. Partially known environment testing, or gray box testing

## Responsible Disclosure Programs
*Responsible disclosure (RD) programs* for vulnerabilities enable individuals and organizations to report security vulnerabilities or weaknesses they have discovered to the appropriate parties. The goal of responsible disclosure is to allow security issues to be addressed before they are exploited by attackers, ultimately improving overall security for everyone. *Bug bounty*
programs offer a monetary reward for people that find vulnerabilities.


