A *framework* is a structure used to provide foundation. In cybersecurity, there are multiple frameworks available that describe best practices and provide instructions on how to secure systems.

## ISO Standards
The *International Organizations for Standardization (ISO)* is an independent organization that establishes standards. These documents must be purchased and are not available for free. Documents created by the *NIST* are all free.

* **ISO 27001**: *Information Security Management Systems* gives information on *ISMS* requirements. Three-stage certification process to indicate they are compliant.
* **ISO 27002**: *Information Security, Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection *  its a complement to *ISO 27001*. While 27001 indicates requirements to be certified 27002 provides orgs with best practices guidance.
* **ISO 27701**: *Privacy Information Management System (PIMS)* is an extension to 27001 and 27002. It outlines a framework for managing and protecting PII. Provides guidance to comply with privacy standards like the *EU General Protection Regulation (EU GDPR)*
* **ISO 31000**: *Risk Management* is a family of standards to related to risk management. Provides guidelines on how to manage risk.

## Industry Specific Frameworks
Some frameworks only apply to specific industries. For example organizations that deal with credit cards, must comply with the *Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)*. It includes 12 principal requirements for different types of entities that organizations follow to protect credit card data. 

The *Center for Internet Security (CIS)* has a stated mission of "Make the connected world a safer place by developing, validating, and promoting timely best practice solutions that help people, businesses, and governments protect themselves against pervasive cyber threats.”

## NIST Frameworks
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) publishes two important frameworks that are widely used by risk management and cybersecurity professionals. These frameworks are widely respected in the cybersecurity field.

* **NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF)**: *NIST SP 800-37*,  While U.S. federal government agencies must adopt the RMF, many private sector organizations adopt it as well. RMF provides organizations with a seven-step process to identify and mitigate risks.
* **NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)**: Aligns with the *RMF*. Many private sector organizations have adopted it to improve their ability to prevent, detect and respond to cyberattacks. it includes three components.

## Reference Architecture
In cybersecurity, *reference architecture* is a document that provides a set of standards. You will not find a single reference architecture that meets the needs of all projects. Instead, the key is that complex projects often use one to standardize everyone's efforts on a project.

## Audit and Assessments
Business leaders and outside stakeholders often want assurances that their organizations are complying with regulatory requirements and industry standard best practices. Audits and assessments provide them with the ability to achieve this goal.

*Audits* are a formal evaluation of an organization’s policies, procedures, and operations. In the world of cybersecurity, audits confirm that the organization has put security controls in place that are adequate and are effectively protecting critical assets.

*Assessments* are less formal reviews of an organization’s cybersecurity defenses. Assessments may include vulnerability scans, penetration tests, and reviews of cybersecurity controls. Many of the techniques used in an assessment may also play a role in an audit.

Assessments can be performed by different groups. Can be done by third-parties or the cybersecurity team at the company. Audits are more formal and are conducted by a team that is ***independent*** from the team that implemented the controls.

* External Audits
* Internal Audits

The most requested task for an audit group is a *gap analysis*. The reviewers will compare a standard like [[5. Understanding Frameworks & Standards#ISO Standards|ISO 27001]] and then compare the requirements to the current current operations and find if there are any gaps. 

The outcome of an audit is an *attestation* made by the auditor. This is a formal statement that specific security controls and processes are in place and operating effectively within an organization. This is a significant statement, as the audit firm is putting their reputation on the line.
