Change happens constantly inside an organization. *Change management* programs provide a formal process for approving and carrying out changes in a manner that is coordinated with all stakeholders and designed to minimize the risk associated with the change. 

## Business Process
As you design a change management program you should address several business process issues. 

* A formal **approval process**, ensures every change is reviewed by management.
* **Ownership** define who is responsible for each change. 
* **Stakeholder analysis** identifies who is affected by the change. These people are warned
* **Impact analysis** reviews the potential effects of the change.
* **Testing** changes are tested in a testing environment to ensure that they are working.
* A **backout plan** details the sequence of steps needed to restore the system if something goes wrong.
* **Maintenance window** offer a time where stakeholders are aware that systems may be down due to maintenance. Like Sunday morning.

## Technical Implications
Change management program must consider the technical implications of any changes and make sure the changes are implemented in a smooth manner. 

* Updating security controls to accommodate the change, things like [[3. Basic Network Infrastructure#Firewalls|firewalls]] or control lists.
* Identifying restricted activities, for example. users are not allowed to register the same day as the change is happening.
* Communicating downtime expectations to key stakeholders.
* Avoiding disruptions as much as possible by putting controls around risky activates. 
* Tracking dependencies between systems and services to identify downstream effects.

