Many organizations create an *incident response policy* to help employees identify and react to incidents.  An incident could be a *cyberattack*, a *data breach* .etc. 

For example the [[5. Understanding Frameworks & Standards|NIST SP 800-61 Revision 2]] provides a detailed guide on responding to incidents. 

## Incident Response Plan
An *incident response plan* provides more detail than the response policy. It provides a formal, coordinated plan that personnel can use when responding to an incident. 

* **Definitions and Incident Types**: Explains what is considered as an incident and the type.
* **Incident Response Team**: List of trained employees (CIRT) that respond to incidents. 
* **Roles and Responsibilities**: The roles and responsibilities of each team member in the response team.

The plan can also include a communication plan which details the communications that should happen during an incident. Things like internal communications, law enforcement. 

## Incident Response Process
The first step in the incident response process is **preparation**. Next, the organization **detects** security incidents that occur and **analyzes** their effects. After identifying an incident, personnel attempt to **contain** the problem to protect critical systems while maintaining business operations. **Eradication** attempts to remove all malicious components from an attack, and recovery returns affected systems to normal operation. **Reviewing** lessons learned allows personnel to analyze the incident and the response to help prevent a future occurrence.

Another important thing to do is *training* to prepare employees for the potential incident. Things like [[4. Comparing Business Continuity Elements#^131ff6|tabletop exercises]] or [[4. Comparing Business Continuity Elements#^2e10fd|simulations]] are good options. 

## Threat Hunting
*Threat hunting* is like being a detective in the digital world. It is when a skilled computer security expert actively searches for sneaky threats that might have slipped past regular security systems. The aim is to find and eradicate invaders before they have the chance to do any damage. To track down these hidden threats, threat hunters use a mix of special tools and techniques. They may use things like threat intelligence feeds which provide regularly updated ‘most wanted’ lists of cyber threats.

## Understanding Digital Forensics
Organizations implement *digital forensics* techniques when collecting information after an incident. Which can be used to prosecute a crime or investigate how and why it happened. It is important to protect and not modify the evidence, like a real life CSI investigation.

* **Acquisition and Preservation**: It is important to not modify data. *Order of volatility* refers to the order in which you should collect evidence. The order of volatility is cache memory, regular RAM, swap file (or paging file), hard drive data, and data stored on network systems.
* **Data Acquisition**:  Security experts use [[1. Virtualization#Snapshots|snapshots]] to capture data for analysis. *Artifacts* are pieces of data on a device. Some examples are, web history, recycle bins, windows error reporting, RDP cache.
* **Legal Holds and Electronic Discovery**: A l*egal hold* refers to a legal obligation to maintain different types of data as evidence. *eDiscovery* is the identification and collection of electronically stored information. When collecting data it is vital to preserver metadata
* **Admissibility of Documentation and Evidence**: It is important to manage evidence so that it can be presented in court. The *chain of custody* provides assurance that evidence has been controlled and correctly handled after collection. It includes a form detailing who had possession of the data and at what time.
* **Reporting**: Documents the *tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs)* used in the attack. Similar to the CPTS report. It is not meant as a legal document but is used to improve the security of the organization, port-incident.

## Understanding SOAR
A trend in incident response is the *Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR)* tools to respond to low-level security events automatically. This frees up administrator's and often combines tools that work together to both detect, and respond to suspicious activity. 

SOAR platforms use **playbooks** and **runbooks**. a playbook provides general guidelines and a runbook provides the technical details to implement the playbook guidelines.

* **Playbooks**: A playbook may include a checklists of what to check within a threat, like a phishing email. Some playbooks can trigger automated actions, but most of the time they just document and let the runbook do their thing.
* **Runbooks**: Does the actions stated in the playbook, for example it may open the attachment in a phishing email in a sandbox etc. 
