Security governance is the set of responsibilities and processes established by an organization's top-level management to direct, evaluate and control the organization's security efforts.  

## Governance Structures
The governance structure may include various boards, committees and government entities. *Centralized governance structures*  concentrate decision-making authority at the top of the organization. *Decentralized governance structures* allow different parts of the organization to make their own security policies. 

*Boards* often consist of executives and important individual within the organization who can make critical decisions about security policies and strategies.
*Committees* are specialized groups focusing on specific aspects of security, such as [[1. Understanding Risk Management|risk management]] or compliance. 
*Government entities* might have a role if the organization operates in a heavily regulated industry or deals with national security, or critical information.

## External Considerations
Organizations need to take into account a range of external considerations. These may include *regulatory requirements* which can be imposed by governments, *legal obligations* which involves things like privacy laws, *industry standards* which have been built by the industry over the years, and the *security environment* at local, regional, national and global levels.

## Security Policies
Security policies are written documents that lay out a security plan within a company. They are one of many administrative controls used to reduce and [[1. Understanding Risk Management|manage risk]]. A security policy can be a single large document or be divided into several smaller documents. The following sections identify common sections of the security policy.

* **Acceptable Use Policies (AUP)**: Describes the purpose of computers and networks, how users can access them, as well as the responsibilities of users when using them. 
* **[[5. Understanding Frameworks & Standards|Information Security Policies]]**: Protect and organization's data and information systems. They define rules for how to manage, protect and distribute information. 
* **[[4. Comparing Business Continuity Elements|Business Continuity]] and [[4. Comparing Business Continuity Elements|Disaster Recovery]] Policies**: Outline the steps needed to continue operations in the event of a major disruption or disaster. 
* **[[2. Incident Response|Incident Response Policies]]**: provide rules for how the organization will respond to a security incident. 
* **[[3. Secure Software Development|Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Policies]]**: Provide structure for how software should be developed within the organization. They also provide standards for code quality and testing. 
* **[[1. Change Management|Change Management Policies]]**: Outline how changes to IT systems, applications and networks should be managed within the organization. 

## Security Standards
Security policies are typically high-level documents. *Security standards*, on the other hand, are where the details surface. Some common standards include:

* **[[4. Managing Accounts|Password Standards]]**: They might include rules about minimum password length, complexity and more.
* [[6. Authorization Models|Access Control Standards]]: set rules for who can access the organization's information systems and resources and to what extent.
* **[[1. Comparing Physical Security Controls|Physical Security Standards]]**: Lays out the requirements for protecting physical assets like buildings, server rooms, data centers and equipment.
* **[[3. Providing Confidentiality with Encryption|Encryption Standards]]**: Out line the methods and protocols to be used for encrypting sensitive data.

## Security Procedures
Again security policies are high-level, *security procedures* go into details of technical requirements when carrying out security-related tasks.

* **Change management procedures**: Describes how requests, approvals and change implementations are to be carried out under the [[1. Change Management|change management program]].
* **Onboarding procedures**: Describes how a new hire is granted access to an organization's resources. 
* **Offboarding procedures**: Describes how to remove an employee's access hen they leave the company. [[4. Managing Accounts#Deprovisioning|Disabling user accounts]], collecting [[5. Deploying Mobile Devices Securely#^89c8c6|corporate-owned devices]]. 

## Data Governance
*Data governance* refers to the processes an organization uses to manage, process, and protect data. Some data governance methods help ensure or improve the quality of data. Other methods are driven by regulations and laws. Proper data governance practices ensure that critical data elements are identified.

## Data Roles
In the world of data governance, it is crucial to understand the various roles that are involved in the handling and protection of data. Each role has its unique responsibility and functions.

* **Data Owner**: Primary responsibility for a specific type of data within the organization. The data owner is usually the senior officer in the area that oversees the data. Have a high responsibility to keep the data safe.
* **Data Stewards**: Data owners are too busy doing other stuff so they delegate the tasks to stewards. They will carry out the intent of the data owner's requirements
* **Data custodian**: Responsible for routine daily tasks such as backup up data. The data custodians are typically IT personnel, while the stewards are more of a business manager.
* **Data Controller**: If you collect employee information for payroll, that makes you the controller for that employee information
* **Data Processor**: Third-party organizations that use and manipulate the data on behalf of the data controller. 

## Monitoring and Revision
Effective security governance is not a one-time task. It involves regular monitoring and revision to ensure that security efforts continue to align with its goals and keep up with evolving threats.

*Monitoring* could involve a variety of activities like routine security audits, regular reviews of access logs, ongoing [[2. Checking for Vulnerabilities#Vulnerability Scanning|vulnerability scanning]]. 

*Revisions* are the process of updating security governance documents and practices based on the insights gained from *monitoring*.  