Organizations interact with entities outside the organization (commonly called third parties) for various reasons, such as purchasing supplies, creating partnerships, and more. These relationships can often introduce risks that need to be managed, and security policies sometimes address these risks.

## Supply Chain Vendors
A *supply chain vendor* includes all the elements required to produce and sell products and services. In some cases, the suppl chain becomes an attack vector. By exploiting vulnerabilities in the supply chain, attackers can impact the primary organization. Organizations should regularly conduct a *supply chains analysis* that identifies all of the vendors that make up their supply can and assesses any risks associated with those relationships. 

## Vendor Assessment
Cloud providers are expected to implement rigorous safeguards to protect the data they maintain and ensure the security of the services they provide. But these security controls are not visible so many contracts include a *right-to-audit clause*. This permits the customer to hire and auditor to review the cloud provider's records and systems. Things like [[3. Penetration Testing|penetration tests]], and [[2. Checking for Vulnerabilities|vulnerability assessments]] are common. 

## Vendor Agreements
Organizations often use different types of agreements to help identify various responsibilities. 

* **Service Level Agreement (SLA)**: An agreement between a company and a vendor that stipulates performance expectations, such as uptime, downtime. etc. This are used to compare different service providers. If the vendor does not meet expectation a monetary penalty can be applied.
* **Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)**: Expresses an understanding between to or more parties indicating their intention to work together towards a common goal. It is less formal than a SLA and does not include monetary penalties.
* **Business Partners Agreement (BPA)**: Written agreement that details the relationship between business partners, including their obligations, responsibilities. It also indicates the shares of profits and losses.
* **Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)**: Issued between to entities to ensure that proprietary data is not disclosed to unauthorized entities. 
* **Master Services Agreements (MSA)**: Provide structure to the agreements for vendors that you will work with repeatedly. It is a general agreement so that you do not have to make one for each project, but it i still nice to make a **Work Oder (WO)** which is a simple version to detail differences between the MSA.
* **Rules of Engagement**: Important when a vendor will be conducting security testing activities on your behalf. The rules indicate what and what is not allowed in their testing. 
