Security professionals often find themselves responsible for ensuring that their organizations comply with a variety of laws and external regulations. The following are the most important security laws. 

* **Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)**: Mandates that organizations protect health information. 
* **Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (GLBA)**: Also know as the *Financial Services Modernizations Act* and includes a *Financial Privacy Rule*. This rule requires financial institutions to provide consumers with a privacy notice explaining what information they collect and how it will be used.
* **General Protection Regulation (GDPR)**: Mandates the protection of privacy data for individuals who live in the EU. 
* **Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)**: Not a law but a contractual relationship between banks that issue credit cards and the merchants who accept them. Outlines a set of strict security requirements for handling cardholder data.

## Compliance Monitoring and Reporting 
Implementing compliance program within an organization is vital. An equally essential facet of a successful compliance program involves ongoing monitoring and reporting. You may include internal or external monitoring and reporting, external monitoring could be performed by a third-party.

Due diligence and due care are critical aspects of this process. *Due diligence* refers to the actions taken to ensure the organization is aware of all legal requirements applicable to its operations. *Due care* is the continuous effort of ensuring the organization adheres to these requirements and addresses any identified non-compliance in a timely manner.

*Attestation* and *acknowledgement* form another crucial part of the compliance monitoring and reporting process. Attestation refers to the verifications of individuals or third parties that the company is compliant with rules and regulations. Acknowledgement is the recognition and acceptance of these compliance standards by employees or stakeholders. 


