*Security awareness* is an essential part of organizational security. This includes training personnel on security policies and training to help ensure personnel remain up to date with current technologies and threats.

## Computer-Based Thinking
*Computer-based training (CBT)* refers to any training where an individual interacts with an application on a computer. It can be courseware installed on a single computer or web-based training available over the Internet or an intranet.

Students can learn at their own pace with videos, or courses. Uses may also have a final test at the end to test if they understood the contents.

## Phishing Campaigns
Organizations often hire an outside security company to help with phishing simulations. Some security companies provide access to an online app that an organization’s representative can use. The representative can choose who to send the phishing emails to (such as everyone or specific groups), how often to send the emails (such as one time or monthly), when to start the simulation, and more. 

These online apps often have multiple templates that the representatives can choose from, such as emails with attachments, emails with URLs, and emails asking them to respond with information. This culminates with a report documenting any inappropriate responses. It gives management insight into the effectiveness, or ineffectiveness, of current training.

## User Guidance and Training 
Users are generally not security experts, and they need guidance and training to assist them as they navigate the digital world. This information helps them maintain situational awareness regarding their digital activities. That just means that they are aware of what is going on around them. Training should reinforce security messages and help users understand the information that might be found in policies and handbooks.

* **Insider Threats**
* **Password Management**
* **Removable Media**
* **Social Engineering**
* **Operational Security**
* **Hybrid/Remote Work**