This section explores many of the more advanced security devices used to secure networks from chapter three.

## Understanding IDSs and IPSs
Intrusion detection systems (IDSs) monitor a network and send alerts when they detect suspicious events on a system or network. Intrusion prevention systems (IPSs) react to attacks in progress and prevent them from reaching systems and networks.

##### HIDS
A *host-based intrusion detection system (HIDS)* is additional software installed on a system which monitors the individual host.  For a *HIDS*, this traffic passes through the NIC. Many *HIDS* have expanded to monitor application activity on the system.  *HIDS* are installed to also see if the antivirus missed something.

##### NIDS
A *network-based intrusion detection system (NIDS)* monitors activity on the network. An admin installs NIDS sensors or collectors on network devices such as switches, routers or firewalls. These collect data and report back to the central monitoring system hosting the NIDS console. 

##### Detection Methods
An IDS can only detect and attack but not prevent it. There are two main detection methods, which are, signature-based and heuristic-, behavioral-based or Trend-based. 

1. **Signature-based**: Has a database of known vulnerabilities and attack patterns and filters them out.
2. **Trend-based Detection**: Identifies normal network operations, when the IDS detects abnormal activity it flags it. This method is better at finding ***Zero-day exploits***.

##### Data Sources and Trends
Data sources like logs inside of a [[4. Logging and Monitoring#Centralized Logging and Monitoring|SIEM]] can be used to aggregate the data making it easier to analyze. An IDS can then analyze these log entries to provide information about trends and detect a pattern.

##### Reporting based on Rules
An IDS reports on events of interest based on rules configured within the IDS. All events aren’t attacks or actual issues, but instead, they provide a report indicating an event might be an alert or an alarm. Administrators investigate to determine if it is valid.

##### Alert Response and Validation
The following list describes the four possible responses of an IDS to an attack or perceived attack. 
* **False positive**. A false positive occurs when an IDS or IPS sends an alarm or alert when there is no actual attack.
* **False negative**. A false negative occurs when an IDS or IPS fails to send an alarm or alert even though an attack exists. 
* **True negative**. A true negative occurs when an IDS or IPS does not send an alarm or alert, and there is no actual attack. 
* **True positive**. A true positive occurs when an IDS or IPS sends an alarm or alert after recognizing an attack.

## IPS Versus IDS
Just like HIDS and NIDS you can have HIPS and NIPS but NIPS are usually more common. There are some differences between IPSs and IDSs

* And IPS can detect, react to and prevent attacks
* In contras, an IDS monitors and will respond after detecting an attack, it does not prevent them
* An IPS is **in-line** with the traffic, all traffic passes through the IPS and the IPS can block malicious traffic.
* In contrast, an IDS is **out-of-band**. It monitors the network traffic using a network tap, but the traffic does not go through the IDS
* An IPS is considered active because its in-line while the IDS is considered passive because its **out-of-band**

