A *honeypot* is a sweet looking server. Its a server that is left **open** or appears to have been locked down sloppily. The intent is to make the server look like an easy target, so that an attacker spends his time on this network instead of the live network. 

* **Deceive the attackers and divert them from live networks**: If an attacker is spending time on the honeypot are not attacking the live server
* **Allow observation of an attacker:** While an attacker is in the honeypot, security professionals can observer the attack and learn. Honeypots are often used to learn about Zero-Days

## Honeynets
A *honeynet* is a group of honeypots within a separate network but accessible from an organization's primary network. This mimics the functionality of a live network. 

## Honeyfile
A *honeyfile* is a file designed to attract the attention of an attacker. This can be done by putting a juicy file name or extension. 

## Honeytockens
*Honeytokens* have a different purpose. They try to detect cases where an attacker is able to steal data. For example, an organization places fake, but easily detectable, records in their production databases. Then, if they later suspect that data was stolen, they can search for the honeytoken. If they find that fake record in another dataset, they know that it was stolen. 

For example, you might create a new email address JamesKate@getcertifiedgetahead.com and insert it into a fake customer record in your database. You then never use that email address anywhere else. If that email ever receives a message, you know that the message came from an attack where the attacker was able to steal your customer database.
