There are several known attack against wireless networks. Most can be avoided by using strong security protocols like [[3. Securing Wireless Networks#^700414|WPA2 with CCMP]] or [[3. Securing Wireless Networks#^0aaff5|WPA3 with SAE]]. WPA, on the other hand, is vulnerable to many attacks. 

## Disassociation Attacks
A *disassociation attack* effectively removes a wireless client from a wireless network. 
After a wireless client authenticates with a wireless AP, the two devices exchange frames, causing the client to be associated with the AP. At any point, a wireless device can send a disassociation frame to the AP to terminate the connection. This frame includes the wireless client’s MAC address. When the AP receives the disassociation frame, it deallocates all its memory for the connection.

In this attack, attacker send a disassociation frame to the WAP with a spoofed MAC address of the victim. Interestingly some hotels actually do this attack against phone hotspots to force customers to pay for WiFi.

## Wi-Fi Protected Setup
*WiFi Protected Setup (WPS)* allows users to configure wireless devices without typing in the passphrase. Instead, users can configure devices by pressing buttons or entering a short eight-digit PIN. Kind of like sharing WiFi, the WAP will have a code and you can enter it on the phone. 

Unfortunately, WPS is susceptible to brute-force attacks. A WPS attack keeps trying different PINs until it succeeds. For example, Reaver is an open-source tool that allows attackers to discover the PIN within about 10 hours and often much quicker. Once it discovers the PIN, it can discover the passphrase in WPA2 wireless networks. However, WPS is safe if it is used with WPA3. Security professionals recommend disabling this feature by going to the WAP's page. 

## Rogue Access Point
A *rogue access point (Rogue AP)* is an AP placed within a network without official authorization. Attackers may connect a rogue access point to network devices in wireless closets which lack adequate physical security.  This AP acts like a sniffer to capture traffic passing through the wired network devices. Then using the wireless capability of the AP the attacker can [[3. Protecting Data#Data Loss Prevention|exfiltrate]] the data from the parking lot. An attacker can also use the AP to connect to the wired network

## Evil Twin
An evil twin is a rogue access point with the same [[3. Securing Wireless Networks#Access Point SSID|SSID]] (or similar) as a legitimate access point. You can think of the SSID of the evil twin as a twin of the legitimate AP’s SSID. For example, many public places, such as coffee shops, hotels, and airports, provide free Wi-Fi. An attacker can set up an AP using the same SSID as the public Wi-Fi network, and many unsuspecting users will connect to this evil twin.

Often, administrators will use wireless scanners to perform site surveys. In addition to detecting noise on frequency bands, they can also detect rogue APs, including evil twins. The site survey can help them identify access points’ physical locations because the signal will get stronger as the administrator gets closer.

## Jamming Attacks
Attackers can transmit noise or another radio signal on the same frequency used by the wireless network. This interferes with the wireless transmissions and can seriously degrade performance, think of it as a DoS attack. This attack is called *jamming*

To overcome it you can switch channels or increase the power output, but the attacker can also do it.

## IV Attacks
An *initialization vector (IV)* is a number used by encryption systems, and a wireless IV attack attempts to discover the pre-shared key after first discovering the IV. Some wireless protocols use an IV by combining it with the pre-shared key to encrypt data in transit. When an encryption system reuses the same IV, an IV attack can discover the IV easily. As an example, WEP, an early wireless security protocol, uses a relatively small 24-bit number for the IV. This small IV resulted in wireless networks reusing keys, making WEP easy to crack.

## Near Field Communication Attacks
During a *near field communication attack*, an attacker uses an NFC reader to capture data from another NFC device. One method is an eavesdropping attack. The NFC reader uses an antenna to boost its range and intercepts the data transfer between two other devices. For example, by capturing a credit card being used with NFC.

## RFID Attacks
Radio-frequency identification (RFID) systems include an RFID reader and RFID tags placed on objects. They are used to track and manage inventory, and any type of valuable assets, including objects and animals. Some of the most common RFID attacks are:

* **Sniffing or Eavesdropping**: Since data is transmitted over the air an attacker just needs to listen on the right frequency.
* **RFID Cloning**: Successful eavesdropping attack lead to cloning, we can send the same signal to perform an unauthorized request.
* **A DOS attack**: If an attacker knows the frequency it is possible to launch a *jamming* attack. 

## Bluetooth Attacks
The Bluetooth range was designed initially for about 10 meters, but the range is often farther. Attackers have discovered methods of exploiting these networks. 

* **Bluejacking**: is the practice of sending unsolicited messages to nearby Bluetooth devices. Often harmless but confuses people, can be text, video or images.
* **Bluesnarfing**: refers to the unauthorized access to, or theft of information from a Bluetooth device. Information like email, contact lists, calendars and text messages can be retrieved.  
* **Bluebugging**: Similar to bluesnarfing but goes a step further. In addition to gaining full access to the phone, the attacker install a backdoor. Allowing the attacker to listen to conversations, forward messages and calls. etc.

Ensuring devices cannot be paired without manual user intervention prevents these attacks and placing them in Faraday cages will prevent pairing.

## War Driving and War Flying
The act of driving of flying over buildings in the search for vulnerable or misconfigured WiFi networks. Administrators use these techniques as part of a wireless audit.  