Control Categories describe how control works.

* **Technical controls** use technology such as hardware, software, and firmware to reduce risk.  
* **Managerial controls** are primarily administrative in function. They are typically documented in an organization’s security policy and focus on managing risk. 
* **Operational controls** help ensure that the day-to-day operations of an organization comply with the security policy. People implement them.
* **Physical controls** impact the physical world, such as locks on doors, fences, security guards, and other objects that you can physically touch.


## Technical Controls
An administrator install and configures the technical control, and it will provide control automatically. 

1. **Encryption**: [[1. Core Security Goals#1. Encryption| Encryption]] is a strong technical control used to protect confidentiality of data.
2. **AV Software**: Will provide protection against [[2. Determining Malware Types|malware]]
3. **[[1. Advanced Security Devices#Understanding IDSs and IPSs|Intrusion detection systems (IDSs) and intrusion prevention systems (IPSs)]]**:  Will monitor the network for intrusions and provide protection against some threats.
4. **[[3. Basic Network Infrastructure#Firewalls| Firewalls]]**: Restrict network traffic going in an out of ports in a network.
5. **Least Privilege**: Individual or processes are granted only the privileges they need to perform their tasks, but no more.

## Managerial Controls
These controls use planning and assessment methods to review the organization’s ability to reduce and manage risk.

1. **Risk Assessments**:  These help quantify the and qualify risks within an organization so that team members can focus on the primary issues.
2. **Vulnerability Assessments**: A vulnerability assessment attempts to discover current vulnerabilities. When necessary, additional controls are implemented to reduce the risk from these vulnerabilities.

## Operational Controls
These are controls that are primarily implemented and executed by people and not systems. 

1. **Awareness and Training**: Training helps users maintain password security, and understand threats like phishing.
2. **Configurations Management**: The use of baselines ensures that systems start in a secured and hardened state. *Change Management* ensures that changes do not result in unintended config errors
3. **Media Protections**: This includes physical media like USB sticks, external and internal drives. etc. This covers encryption and how to act in the event of theft or loss.

## Physical Controls
It’s important to realize that you can identify physical controls as other control types. For example, physical controls such as locks are both preventive and deterrent controls. A locked door prevents personnel from entering a secure area and deters individuals from even trying if they know the door is locked.

1. **Video Surveillance**: Videos can be used to protect employees and determine if theft of data is being done. 
2. **Sensors**: Sensors are a more economic way to determine when and where someone passed through, there are many types of sensors. 
3. **Access Control Vestibules**: Provide a physical barrier between the outside world and valuable assets.

> [!TIP] Remember
>  Security controls are categorized as managerial (documented in written policies), operational (performed in day-to-day operations), technical (implemented with technology), or physical (impacting the physical world).
> 