A physical security control is something you can physically touch. Physical access controls are a subcategory of physical controls that attempt to control entry and exits.

* **Perimeter**: Like a military base, fences, bollards, guards
* **Buildings**: Video cameras, lighting, guards etc.
* **Secure Work Areas**: Companies restrict area where employees can perform classified tasks.
* **Sever Rooms**: Routers, switches and servers are stored in an area where only the appropriate IT personnel can enter. Locks are used to secure rooms or closets.

Camouflage can also be used to secure buildings, something like a tall bush can hide a fence and make it less obvious that the organization is securing the building.

## Access Badges
It is possible to secure access to areas with a *proximity card* or *smart cards* that server as *access badges*. Proximity cards are typically credit card-sized access cards. Users pass the card near a proximity card reader, and the card reader then reads data on the card. Some access control points use proximity cards with PINs for authentication.

## Increasing Security with Personnel
Many organizations use *security guards* to control access to buildings and secure spaces. They can check *access badges* or IDs. Guards are also good at preventing attacks like [[3. Recognizing Common Attacks#^22db3b|tailgating]] just by being there.

Instead of guards many organizations use a *reception desk*. Visitors must first check-in with reception before being let into a secure area.

## Monitoring Areas with Video Surveillance
Organizations are increasingly using security cameras in the workplace and surrounding areas with *video surveillance*. A closed-circuit television (CCTV) system transmits video signals from the cameras to monitors.  Can also be used as a deterrent.

Video surveillance provides reliable proof of a person’s location and activity. It can identify who enters and exits secure areas and can record theft of assets. Many cameras include motion detection and object detection capabilities. CCTV systems can be used as a compensating control in some situations.

## Sensors
Many physical security controls use sensors to detect changes in an environment. It’s common to use sensors with cameras, alarms, fire detection, and more.

* **Motion Detection**: Used when an area is empty, can be used to trigger alarms or control lights.
* **Noise Detection**: Can be used to detect if a break-in is happening,
* **Infrared, Microwave, Ultrasonic**: Can detect the presence of people or animals by reading the data that is echoed back form the object.
* **Pressure**: Used to detect when someone is walking over a floor. Or placed in windows to detect if someone is trying to access. 

## Access Control Vestibules
An access control vestibule consists of two sets of interlocking doors, designed to create a secure compartment that allows only one person to enter at a time. These entry points are usually equipped with advanced security measures, such as [[2. Comparing Authentication Methods#Something You Are|biometric scanners]], RFID card readers, or even facial recognition systems.

Access control vestibules prevent tailgating and deter unauthorized entry by trapping an individual between the two sets of doors if they attempt to bypass security.

## Asset Management
*Asset management* is the process of tracking valuable assets throughout their life cycles. These programs should include hardware, software and data assets. The core activities of any asset management program include:

* An **acquisition/procurement** process that provides consistent procedures for identifying the need for new assets.
* An **assignment/accounting** process that assigns each asset to a name owner who bears responsibility for the asset and a classification system that identifies the sensitivity of each asset.
* A **monitoring and asset tracking** process that maintains an inventory of all the assets and their current location. This process if often audited.

##### Hardware Asset Management
Used to track servers, desktops, laptops, routers and other hardware assets. An effective asset management system can help reduce serval vulnerabilities. 

* **Architecture and design weaknesses**: Asset management ensures that new assets go through an approval process to make sure the asset fits the architecture and has strong security.
* **System sprawl and undocumented assets**: System sprawl occurs when an organization has more systems that it needs. Asset management ensures that only the needed assets are purchased and are added to the inventory list.

##### Software Asset Management
Involves tracking and managing software licenses, installation, and usage within the organization. This reduces the amount of vulnerabilities that are associated with unpatched software.

##### Data Asset Management
Focuses on the organization's data assets, including database files, and other information repositories. It involves defining data ownership, classification and access controls. It also makes sure that availability, confidentiality and integrity of data is held. Makes sure there are no breaches or data loss.

## Platform Diversity
*Defense in depth* (also known as *layered security*) refers to the security practice of implementing several layers of protection. One of the ways to apply layered security is with **diversity**. Using different vendors, technologies and different controls. 

* **Vendor Diversity**: If we used the same vendor and a vulnerability appears every sector would become vulnerable
* **Technology Diversity**: Makes sure that if one technology fails we have a backup, access cards, CCTV.
* **Control Diversity**: Use different security [[2. Control Categories|control categories]]. Using more control categories is good.

## Physical Attacks
We use physical security controls to protect against physical attacks. Our adversaries have a number of tools at their disposal to try to undermine our physical security.

* **Card Skimming and Card Cloning**: Copying a cards data
* **Brute Force Attacks**: Smashing a card through a barrier
* **Environment Attacks**: Raising temperature of the server room


