Backups are copies of data created to ensure that if the original data is lost or corrupted, it can be restored. 

## Backup Media
The most common media used for backups is tape. Tapes tore more data and are cheaper than other media. Other types of media are:

* **Disk**: Disk access is much quicker than tape. Disks are more expensive
* **Network-attached Storage (NAS)**: A dedicated computer used for file storage and is accessible on a network.
* **Storage Area Network (SAN)**: Provides block level data storage via a full network. Can be used for real-time replication of data. Organizations use it to provide high-speed access to disk arrays or tape libraries.
* **Cloud Storage**: It is also possible to store backups in the cloud.

## Online Versus Offline Backups
Offline backups use traditional backup media within a network such as tapes, local disks, drives in a NAS, and even backup targets within a SAN. Offline backups are easy and are relatively fast. Sadly the backup media can be destroyed, fail or stolen.

Online backups are stored in the cloud. Cloud provides will make sure our data is safe but the backup speed is as fast as our internet speed.

For databases, online and offline backups have a different meaning. Online or *hot backup* means that the backup is done while the database is operational. An offline backup or cold-backup happens when the database is not running. 

## Types of Backups
Backup utilities support several different types of backups.

* **Full Backup**: A full (or normal) backup backs up all the selected data. It is the easiest to recover from but it is expensive and time consuming.
* **Differential Backup**: After a full backup, differential backups backup data that has change or is different since the last full backup. 
* **Incremental Backup**: Also starts with a full backup. After the full backup, incremental backups then back up data that has changed since the last backup. This includes either the last full backup or the last incremental backup.
* **Snapshot and Image Backup**: A snapshot backup captures the data at a point in time. It is sometimes referred to as an image backup.

If you have unlimited time and money, the full backup alone provides the fastest recovery time. Full/ incremental strategies reduce the amount of time needed to perform backups. Full/differential strategies reduce the amount of time needed to restore backups.

For example, every Sunday a full backup is done and every day a differential and incremental backup is done. If the server crashes on Thursday we would need 2 backups with the differential approach and 4 for the incremental approach. 

## Replication, Journaling
*Replication* is the process of creating an exact copy of data or a system in real-time or near-real-time. This done to maintain a secondary site or system that can be quickly brough online if the main server fails. Replication can be performed at different levels, such as storage, file or application level.

*Journaling* is a backup technique that records changes to data or file sequentially in a sperate log, also known as the journal. In case of a system failure or data corruption, the journal can be used to recover the data to its more recent state by applying the changes recorded in the journal to a previous backup. 

## Testing Backups
The only way to validate a backup is to perform a test restore. It is common to restore data to a different location than the original source location. This still validates the quality of the data.

If an administrator tests a backup there are two outcomes to the test, both are good, one is if the backup succeeds, all is well. If the backup fails, it is still good, something went wrong and we can fix it before we really need the backup. Testing backups is also good to train administrators. 

## Geographical Considerations
It is important to address special geographic considerations, such as the following.

* **Offsite vs Onsite Storage**: At least one copy o backups should be stored offsite. Storing backups at a separate location protects them from natural disasters.
* **Distance**: Some prefer to have the offsite location for convenience, farther locations guarantee that in the event of a disaster there is a higher chance that the backups are safe
* **Legal Implications**: Depends on the data being stored inside the backups. Are they PII or Protected Health Information (PHI)? credit cards? The data should be protected like the main database.
* **Data Sovereignty**: The legal implications when data is stored offsite. If the backups are stored in a different country they may be subject to different laws.
* **Encryption**: Encryption should be used for backups too, this adds another layer of security.