Business continuity planning helps an organization predict and plan for potential outages of critical services or functions. Organizations often create a *business continuity plan (BCP)*. This plan contains disaster recovery elements that provide the steps used to return critical functions to operations after an outage. 

## Business Impact Analysis Concepts
A *business impact analysis (BIA)* is an important part of a BCP. It helps an organization identify critical systems and components that are essential to the organization's success. The organizations must have completed the BIA before a disaster hits. The BIA involves collecting information from throughout the organization and documenting the results. The BIA does not recommend results but it does provide managers with valuable information so that they can focus on critical business functions. It helps them address some of the following questions:

* What are the critical systems and functions?
* Are there any dependencies related to these critical systems and functions. 
* What is the maximum downtime limit of these critical systems and functions?
* What scenarios are most likely to impact these critical systems and functions?
* What is the potential loss from these scenarios?

## Recovery Time Objective
The *recovery time objective (RTO)* identifies the maximum amount of time it can take to restore a system after an outage. If an outage lasts longer than the RTO, the impact is unacceptable for the organization 

## Recovery Point Objective
A *recovery point objective (RPO)* identifies a point in time where data loss is acceptable. Imagine a database server that is not too important Management might decide that that some data loss is acceptable, but they want to always recover data from at least the previous week. IN this case, the RPO is one week.

## Comparing MTBF and MTTR
The *mean time between failures (MTBF)* provides a measure of a system’s reliability and would provide an estimate of how often the systems will experience outages. The *mean time to repair (MTTR)* refers to the time it takes to restore a system.

## Continuity of Operations Planning
*Continuity of operations planning (COOP)* focuses on restoring mission-essential functions at a recovery site after a critical outage. Imagine a hurricane strikes the main location, COOP makes sure that we can function on the secondary site.

A *recovery site* is an alternate processing site that an organization uses for *site resiliency*. When planning the locations of your recovery sites, it is important to keep [[3. Protecting Data with Backups#Geographical Considerations|geographic dispersion]] in mind.

* **Hot Site**: A hot site includes personnel, equipment, software, and communication capabilities of the primary site with all the data up-to-date. A hot site provides the shortest recovery time compared with warm and cold sites. It is the most effective disaster recovery solution, but it is also the most expensive to maintain.
* **Cold Site**: A cold site will have power and connectivity needed for a recovery site, but little else. Cold sites are the least expensive and the hardest to test. A warm site is a compromise between a hot site and a cold site. Mobile sites do not have dedicated locations but can provide temporary support during a disaster.

## Disaster Recovery
A *disaster recovery plan (DRP)* identifies how to recover critical systems and data after a disaster. A DRP or BCP will include a hierarchical list of critical systems. This list identifies what systems to restore after a disaster and in what order.

Similarly, the DRP often prioritizes the services to restore after an outage. As a rule, critical business functions and security services are restored first. Support services are restored last. The different phases of a disaster recovery process typically include the following steps:

* **Activate the Disaster Recovery Plan**: Some disasters can be predicted and you can activate the DRP preemptively. Other times, you can only do it after it hits.
* **Implement Contingencies**: If the recovery plan requires the implementation of an alternative site, critical functions are moved to these sites. 
* **Recover Critical Systems**: After the disaster has passed, begin recovering critical systems using the priority list in the DRP. 
* **Test Recovered Systems**: Before bringing the systems online, administrators should test and verify them. 
* **After-Action Report**: The final phase which includes a review of the disaster, includes lessons learned and what went wrong. 

## Testing Plans with Exercises
Several types of testing are used with BCPs and DRPs, including tabletop exercises, walk-throughs, simulations, parallel processing, and failover tests.

* **Tabletop Exercises**: A coordinator gathers participants in a room and leads them through a hypothetical scenario. Participants will then identify how they would respond based on the organization's plan.
* **Simulations**: In a simulation participants go through the steps in a controlled manner without affecting the actual system. Can be a small test or a full blown simulation.
* **Parallel Processing**: Makes sure that the disaster recovery site is actually working by activating it during the test. The test site will run parallel to the main site to make sure everything works as intended. 
* **Fail Over Tests**: Ultimate test of a disaster recovery plan. The test works by actually shutting down the primary site and testing the recovery site.
