Virtualization is a popular method to hosts one or more virtual systems, or virtual machines (VMs) on a single physical system. You can even host an entire virtual network within a single physical system. 

* **Hypervisor**: Is a specialized software that creates, runs and manages virtual machines. (Microsoft Hyper-V, ***Oracle VirtualBox*** .etc.)
* **Host**: The physical system hosting the VMs. It requires more resources than a typical system. The host system runs the hypervisor software.
* **Guest**: Operating systems running on the host system are guests or guest machines. Basically the virtual machine's OS
* **Could Scalability**: Scalability refers to the ability to resize the computing capacity of the VM. Putting more CPU cores, more RAM etc. Requires a reboot.
* **Cloud Elasticity**: Elasticity refers to the ability to dynamically change resources assigned to the VM based on the load. Does not require a reboot.

## Thin Clients and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure
A *thin client* is a computer with enough resources to boot and connect to a server to run specific application or desktops. The server is a powerful server located on-site or in the cloud and supports multiple thin clients.

A *virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI)* hosts a user´s desktop operating system on a server. Users can commonly connect to them using a [[5. Using VPNs for Remote Access|VPN]] which allows them to access the VDI from anywhere as long as they have an internet connection. 

## Containerization
*Containerization* is a type of virtualization that runs services or applications within the isolated containers or application cells. Container do not host an entire operating system. Instead, the host's operating system and kernel run the service or app within each of the containers. Container cannot interfere with services or apps in other containers. Docker.

## VM Escape Protection
*VM escape* is an attack that allows an attacker to access the host system form within a virtual guest system. Keeping systems up-to-date is the best protection for this type of attack.

## VM Sprawl Avoidance
VM sprawl occurs when an organization has many VMs that aren’t appropriately managed. Most companies should create policies to mitigate this. If a VM is created, and forgotten it will miss key security updates which leaves the door open for attackers.

## Resource Reuse
