Data is one of the most valuable assets any organization manages, second only to its people. 

## Data Loss Prevention
*Data exfiltration* is the unauthorized transfer of data outside an organization. Organizations often use *data loss prevention (DLP)* techniques and technologies to prevent data exfiltration. 

To protect data, USB ports can be blocked and administrators can examine outgoing data and detect unauthorized data transfers. The *DLP* can be set up to look for words when it analyzes outgoing data, if a keyword or text pattern is seen, security personnel will be notified. 

## Removable Media
*Removable media* refers to any storage system that you can attach to a computer and easily copy data. It is quite common to prohibit the use of USB flash drives and other removable media. 

## Protecting Confidentiality with Encryption
One of the primary ways to prevent loss of [[1. Core Security Goals#^017dd3|confidentiality]] is by [[1. Core Security Goals#1. Encryption|encrypting]] data. Even if the data is exfiltrated an attacker would only be able to read the data if he knew the key that was used to encrypt the data.

## Database Security
Although it is possible to encrypt the entire contents of the database it is more common to encrypt specific database ***fields*** (columns) or ***records*** (rows) that contain sensitive information.

An example would be to encrypt a credit card columns in a user database. The other fields can be left in plaintext as they do not contain any critical information.

## Protecting Data in Use
*Data-in-use* refers to data that is current being processed or accessed by a system or application. This can be sensitive data like passwords or encryption keys. 

*Secure enclave*, sometimes known as *trusted execution environment (TEE)*, is a type of security technology that provides a secure and isolate are within a system or application for processing sensitive data. Secure enclaves use ***hardware-based*** security mechanisms to isolate the data from the rest of the system.

## Data Sanitization 
*Data sanitization* methods ensure that data is removed or destroyed from any devices before [[2. Implementing Secure Systems#Decommissioning and Disposal|disposing of them]].  Some of the most common methods to destroy data and sanitize media are the following:

* **File Shredding**: Some apps remove remnants of a file by repeatedly overwriting the disk space with 1s and 0s
* **Wiping** refers to completely removing all remnants of data in a disk. Kind of like file shredding but for the entire disk.
* **Erasing and overwriting**. SSDs require a special process as they use flash memory. Most companies just opt for destroying the device
* **Burning**: Just burn it
* **Pulping**. Turns shredded paper into a mash or puree
* **Pulverizing** is the process of physically destroying media by grinding it into fine particles. 
* **Degaussing** is a method that passes magnetic storage devices through a strong electric magnet which wipes or renders the media unusable. 