Cloud computing refers to accessing computing resources via a different location than your local computer. In most cases, through the internet.

## Cloud Delivery Models
One of the ways that we can classify cloud services is by what type of resources they provide to their customers. These are the *cloud delivery models* there are three main models:

1. **Software as a Service**: Any software or app provided to users over the Internet. Normally accessed with a web browser. An example of a *SaaS* is Gmail. 
2. **Platform as a Service**: Offers customers a preconfigured computing platform they can use as needed. Serverless computing an example of PaaS, such as amazon lambada, you provide the software and the execution instructions.
3. **Infrastructure as a Service**: Provides customers with access to hardware in a self-managed platform. Unlike PaaS, IaaS customers are responsible for software and OS updates.

## Cloud Deployment Models
The second way that we can categorize cloud services is by their *cloud deployment model*. This describes where they reside and who may use them. 

1. **Public Cloud**: Third-party companies like Amazon. They provide similar services to everyone willing to pay for them. 
2. **Private Cloud**: offerings are created for use by a single customer. Can be self-made or rented by a service provider.
3. **Community Cloud**: Services shared by a group of customers with shared interests. They could each provide resources for the cloud and only orgs within the community would have access to them. 
4. **Hybrid Cloud**: Combine offerings from two or more deployment models. These retain separate identities to help protect resources in private clouds. 
5. **Multi-Cloud**: combine resources from two or more cloud service providers. Example customer uses *IaaS* from AWS and Microsoft, both are public providers so its not Hybrid.

## Application Programming Interfaces
An *application programming interface (API)* is a software component that gives developers access to features or data within another application, service or OS. Commonly targeted by attackers so security methods should be in place.

* **Authentication**: Strong authentication methods will prevent unauthorized entities from using the APIs. 
* **Authorization**: methods to secure access to the API, developers may be able to act in a different way than a administrator. 
* **Transport Level Security**: The API should use strong security, such as [[2. Protocol Use Cases#^775643|TLS]]. 

## Microservices and APIs
*Microservices* are code modules designed to one thing well. They typically receive values, process them and respond with an output. A microservice module is not tied to any specific business. This allows developers to use it in different applications without modifying it. For example you enter a package ID and you get displayed information about the delivery.  

## Managed Security Service Provider
A *managed security service provider (MSSP)* is a third-party vendor that provides security services for smaller companies. MSSPs may provide the following services:

* Patch Management
* Vulnerability Scanning
* VPNs and proxy services
* Firewalls, IDS and IPS

