Mobile devices represent significant challenges for organizations today. They need to determine if employees can connect mobile devices to the network. 

## Mobile Device Deployment Models
Here are some common deployment methods for mobile devices. In some cases the smartphone is owned by the company and in others the employee own the device.

* **Corporate-owned**: Company buys the devices and issues them to employees ^89c8c6
* **COPE (Corporate-owned, personally enabled)**: Similar to the above but the employees can use the device as if it were its own personal phone.
* **BYOD (Bring your own device)**: Employees can bring their own smartphone but should still abide the BYOD policy, hard to IT to monitor and manage them.
* **CYOD (Choose your own device)**: Company will give a list of acceptable devices, employees can choose and bring one of those

## Connection Methods and Receivers
There are several methods that mobile devices can use to connect to networks and other devices.

* **Cellular**: Connection via 4g, 5g LTE etc.
* **Wi-Fi**: Mobile devices always have a [[3. Securing Wireless Networks#Reviewing Wireless Basics|wireless network]] interface.  
* **Bluetooth**: Most mobile devices include Bluetooth support. 

## Mobile Device Management
*Mobile device management (MDM)* includes the technologies to manage mobile devices and to keep them secure. Some vendors sell *unified endpoint management (UEM)* solutions to manage mobile devices.

* **Application Management**: MDM tools can whitelist certain applications and ban the rest
* **Full Device Encryption**: Hard to do for employee owned devices but [[2. Implementing Secure Systems#Disk Encryption|protects the devices]].
* **Storage Segmentation**: Used to isolate data, users could keep company data within the encrypted section and personal data elsewhere on the device.
* **Content Management**: Makes sure that company data is kept in the secure segment and is encrypted, can also be used to prompt the user for authentication when accessing it.
* **Containerization**: Running a company application in a [[1. Virtualization#Containerization|container]] isolates and protects it. Good when the company allows employees to have their own devices.
* **Passwords or PINs**: Enforces password policies, can be tricky because some phones only use PINs.
* **Biometrics**: Many phones support [[2. Comparing Authentication Methods#Something You Are|biometrics]], facial recognition etc.
* **Screen Locks**: After the phone has been idle for some time it will need  a password to open again. They also support data deletion if the incorrect password is entered more than x amount of times. 
* **Remote Wipe**: If the phone is lost but still connected to to WiFi a remote wipe can be done which removes all data and cached passwords.
* **Geolocation**: Used to locate lost devices.
* **Geofencing**: Device can only be used within a certain geographical zone.
* **GPS tagging**: When posting images they often come with a GPS tag showing where the picture was taken, cool for friends but bad for thieves.
* **Context-aware Authentication**: Kind of like [[3. MFA Authenticaion|MFA]] uses multiple parameters to verify its a valid user.

## Hardening Mobile Devices
MDM tools often manage devices differently depending on who owns them. If its company owned it will automatically install all the required software, but if its employee owned it will monitor them for compliance and warn the user if the device does not meet the minimum requirements. 

##### Unauthorized Software
Organizations want users to only install apps obtained from approved sources. 

* **Third-party stores**: Any app obtained outside of the App Store and Google Play. Apple enforces this by default while its quite easy to do in Android.
* **Jailbreaking**: Removing all software restrictions from an Apple device. *Rooting* refers to rooting the Android device gaining full administrator permissions. MDM will block a device if suspicion of *jailbreaking* or *rooting* is detected.

##### Hardware Control
MDM will usually disable cameras and recording microphones, in the off chance that an attacker gains access to the phone it can be used to get sensitive information or blackmail.

##### Unauthorized Connection
*Tethering* and mobile *hotspots* allow devices to access the Internet and bypass network controls. *Wi-Fi Direct* is a standard that allows devices to connect without a wireless access point or wireless router. MDM tools can block access to devices using tethering, mobile hotspot, or Wi-Fi Direct to access the Internet.