An *embedded system* is any device that has a dedicated function and uses a computer system to perform that function.

## Understanding Internet of Things
The *Internet of Things (IoT)* refers to a wide assortment of technologies that interact with the physical world. They commonly have embedded systems and typically connect to a central device or app and communicate via the Internet, Bluetooth, or other wireless technologies.

## ICS and SCADA Systems
A *supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)* system has embedded systems that control an *industrial control system (ICS)*, such as one used in a power plant or water treatment facility. Embedded systems are also used for many special purposes, such as medical devices, automotive vehicles, aircraft, and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).

Some of these systems are connected to the corporate network. However, they are placed within an isolated [[4. Implementing Network Designs#Isolating Traffic with a VLAN|VLAN]] and the VLAN is protected by a [[1. Advanced Security Devices#IPS Versus IDS|NIPS]].

## Embedded System Components
Embedded systems have several components that work together to perform their functions.
One key component of embedded systems is the *system-on-chip (SoC)*. An SoC integrates many components of a computer system onto a single chip, including a processor, memory, input/output interfaces, and other components.

Another key component of embedded systems is the *real-time operating system (RTOS)*. An RTOS is a specialized operating system designed for embedded systems that require precise timing and deterministic behavior. RTOSs provide real-time scheduling, which means that they can guarantee that certain tasks will be completed within a specific timeframe.

## Embedded System Constraints
Embedded systems have several constraints that can limit their use. The following list describes these constraints:

* **Compute & Power**: They are small and do not have full CPUs making them slow. Power is sourced from the outside, if more computing power was needed more power too.
* **Cryptographic Limitations**: Cant use all cryptographic functions, if this is skipped vulnerabilities will happen.
* **Easy of Development**: Often deployed in remote and difficult to access locations, RTOS makes it hard to maintain as not everyone is familiar.
* **Inability to Patch**: You cannot patch an embedded system because its pure hardware. Vendors also don't include a way to do this and do not really look for vulnerabilities as much.

