Password attacks attempt to discover, or bypass, passwords used for authentication on systems and networks, and for different types of files. Some password attacks are sophisticated cryptographic attacks, while others are rather simple brute force attacks.

* An **online password attack** attempts to discover a password from an online system. There are tools like *ncrack* and *hydra* that automate the process.
* An **offline password attack** attempts to discover passwords from a captured database or packet scan. Often much faster and most of the times is done by cracking a hash.

## Types of Password Attacks
There are many different types of password attacks and we must know how to identify them,

* **Dictionary Attacks**: Uses a dictionary of words and attempts every work in the dictionary to see if it works. These attacks are stopped by using long and complex passwords
* **Brute Force Attacks**: Attempts to guess all possible character combinations. Again, longer passwords can stop this attack as the time to guess password grows exponentially.
* **Password Spraying Attacks**: Deigned to avoid locking accounts out after incorrectly guessing passwords. A large number of user accounts i used, and only one or two passwords will be tested for every user.
* **Pass the Hash Attacks**: Used when an attacker discovers the hash of the user password. This is used in protocols were the user's hash is passed in cleartext. Protocols like NTLM, and Kerberos are often targeted.
* **Birthday Attacks**: Named after the birthday paradox. A random group of 23 people have a 50% chance of two people sharing the same birthday. This applies to finding [[1. Providing Integrity with Hashing#Hash Collisions|hash collisions]], the attacker will try to find a different string that produces the same hash as the user's password
* **Rainbow Table Attacks**: Attacks that attempt to discover the password from a hash by doing a lookup in a precomputed table of cracked hashes.

## Salting Passwords
*Salting passwords* is a common method of preventing rainbow table attacks. A salt is a set of random data. Salting adds these additional characters to a password before hashing it, this results in a different hash than the system would create using only the original password. The salt is also included in the database so the server knows what salt to append when the user logs in.

## Key Stretching
*Key stretching* is an advanced technique used to increase the strength of stored passwords. It first adds a salt to the password, then applies a cryptographic stretching algorithm, to the salted password, this could be applying SHA256 to the password thousands or millions of times, this increases the computational requirement and time needed to calculate the hash.

*Bcrypt*, *PBKDF2*, and *Argon2* are key stretching techniques that help prevent brute force and rainbow table attacks. They salt the password with additional bits and then send the result through a cryptographic algorithm.