When considering attackers, it is important to realize that there are several types of *threat actors*. Threat actors just mean attackers

## Threat Actor Types
Some are highly skilled like *nation-state attackers* which are attackers who are directly employed by a government. These nation-state attackers are an example of an *advanced persistent threat (APT)*. An APT is a group of organized threat actors that engage in targeted attacks against organizations. 

* **Organized Crime**: Composed of a group of individual working together in criminal activities. Primary motivation is money. These groups usually have a hierarchy.
* **Unskilled Attacker**: Script kiddies, just for the fun of it. 
* **Hacktivist**: Launches attacks as part of an activist movement to further a cause.
* **Insider Threat**: Anyone with *legitimate* access to a company's internal resources. Could be because of revenge or monetary gain.
* **Competitors**: Competing organizations willing to do illegal activities to gain an advantage.

## Attacker Attributes
There are three major attributes that distinguish different types of attackers.

* **Internal vs. External**: Externals are often state-sponsored or Script kiddies but Internal ones are potentially more dangerous. 
* **Resources/Funding**: A hobbyist will have no funding whilst state-sponsored attackers will have a lot of money to back them up. 
* **Level of Sophistication**: Most will use already available tools whilst state-sponsored attackers will build their one and far more sophisticated tools.

## Threat Actors Motivations
There are also different motivations for an attacker. 

* **[[3. Protecting Data#Data Loss Prevention|Data Exfiltration]]**: Attackers want to steal and analyze or sell the data for monetary gain.
* **Disruption/Chaos**: They want to cause chaos or be noticed.
* **Financial Gain**: Many attackers are motivated by the prospect of financial gain. Stealing credit cards, or selling data.
* **Blackmail**: Gaining sensitive information about a person to make them comply to demands.
* **Service Disruption**: Stopping a service for example by stopping a political group from spread their agenda.
* **Philosophical/Political Benefit**: Driven by their ideologies, target groups that oppose their ideas.
* **Ethical**: White hat, they want to warn people about misconfigurations
* **Revenge**: Attacking a group that you feel has wronged you.
* **Espionage**: Gain sensitive information for a strategic advantage.
* **War**: Cyber warfare, gain information or destroy critical systems.

## Threat Vectors and Attack Surfaces
*Threat vectors* are the paths that attackers use to gain access to computer and networks. 

* **Message-based**: Attackers send or spam malicious links or attachments. 
* **Image-based**: Embedding malicious code within an image file, if the file is downloaded the code will be executed.
* **File-based**: Embedding malicious code within a seemingly innocuous file.
* **Voice-call**: Attackers impersonate trusted individual or organizations to manipulate victims.
* **[[3. Protecting Data#Removable Media|Removable-device]]**: USB drive loaded with [[2. Determining Malware Types|malware]] which are plugged into computes. 
* **Software-based**: Attacker target vulnerabilities in software.
* **System-based**: Target computer systems like unsupported OSs, vulnerable applications.
* **Network-based**: Exploiting weaknesses on the network infrastructure. 
* **Supply-chain**: Target the relationships between organizations and their [[4. Summarizing Cloud Concepts#^577d23|MSPs]]

## Shadow IT
Shadow IT refers to unauthorized systems or applications used within an organization without authorization or approval.

