Applications often provide an avenue for attackers to generate attacks unless developers create barriers using secure coding concepts.

## Input Validation
*Input validation* is the practice of checking data for validity before using it. The application will sanitize or discard the request before using it. Can lead to SQL injections DLL hijacking etc. 

* **Verifying Proper Characters**: Make sure that the user input follows the structure that is necessary, zip code, 4 number, phone, 10 numbers etc.
* **Blocking HTML Code**: [[4. Other Application Attacks#Cross-Site Scripting|XSS]] detection and sanitizing
* **Preventing the Use of Certain Characters**: Blocking characters like single quotes to prevent an SQL injection
* **Implementing Boundary or Range Checks**: Check that the user cannot order -1 or 100000 pizzas

##### Client-Side and Server-Side Input Validation
Client-side input validation is fast but it can be disabled so it should not be the only protection. Server side validation is slower but you make sure that it is being passed. A combination of these is often the solution

## Avoiding Race Conditions
When two or more modules of an application, or two or more applications, attempt to access a resource at the same time, it can cause a conflict known as a race condition.

Attackers can sometimes exploit *a time of check to time of use (TOCTOU)* race condition. This is sometimes called a *state attack*. It occurs against a system that we refer to as the target of evaluation (TOE). The attacker tries to race the TOE system to do something malicious with data after the operating system verifies access is allowed (time of check) but before the operating system performs a legitimate action at the time of use.

## Proper Error Handling
When an error is encountered it is important for the application to exit gracefully, providing a clear error message. Uncaught errors are dangerous because it can cause the server to crash completely and they can sometimes provide debug logs to attackers. 

* **Errors to Users should be general**: Users will get confused and attackers will know exactly what the application is doing in the background
* **Detailed information should be logged**: Logs help developers find what went wrong without revealing the information to users.

## Code Obfuscation
Developers spend a lot of time developing code, if its JavaScript someone could just copy paste it which is not nice. [[3. Providing Confidentiality with Encryption#Obfuscation|Obfuscation]] attempts to make something unclear or difficult to understand. It renames variables, changes numbers to other bases etc.

It is not really a secure measure because it can be reversed but it does help stop almost everyone. 


