Developing secure software is often expensive and time consuming, companies often use code from third-parties which may or not have passed through proper checking.

## Software Diversity
Automated software diversity methods use a compiler that mimics the compilers of multiple languages. The idea is that this automated diversity provides an added layer of protection. An attack that succeeds on one system would fail on another system using the same multicompiled program.

## Outsourced Code Development
Not all companies have developers in-house. They need to hire third-parties or use already existing code. Some things to consider:

* **Make sure code works as expected**: Developers will claim the code works but it is very important to check the program yourself
* **Vulnerable Code**: Developers may introduce bugs and you may realize the problem too late.
* **Malicious Code**: Developers may introduce [[2. Determining Malware Types#^5d0c49|Logic Bombs]] or backdoors.
* **Lack of Updates**: If there is a security vulnerability and the third part does not update their software it would mean trouble.

## HTTP Headers
There are some recommendations when it comes to HTTP Headers.

* **HTTP Strict-Transport-Security.** This tells the browser to display the page only if it is sent as HTTP Secure (HTTPS).
* **Content-Security-Policy**: Defines multiple sources of acceptable content. PHP, CSS etc.
* **X-Frame-Options**: Tells the browser if X-frames are allowed, not common as they are very vulnerable

## Secure Cookie
A secure cookie is one that has the secure attribute set. This secure attribute ensures that the cookie is only transmitted over secure, encrypted channels, such as HTTPS. This protects the confidentiality of the cookie’s contents and prevents attackers from reading them.

## Code Signing
Code signing provides two benefits. First, the certificate identifies the author. Second, the hash verifies the code has not been modified. If malware changes the code, the hash no longer matches, alerting the user that the code has been modified. It can also be enforced with [[5. Exploring PKI Components#^1558ca|code signing]]

## Analyzing and Reviewing Code
Companies that develop code often hire testers which are tasked with making sure the code has no flaws or vulnerabilities. Ideally, any issues will be fixed before the project goes live. Testers can use different methods to test the code some of them are:

* **Static Code Analysis**: Examines the code without executing it. Can be done manually or with tools
* **Manual Code Review**: Same as static code analysis but done manually by another programmer that did not write the code.
* **Dynamic Code Analysis**: Checks the code as it is running. A common method is *fuzzing*.
* **Sandboxing**: Application is ran in a secure environment 
* **Package Monitoring**: Every developer makes use of code written by others, like python libraries. It is important to check that these libraries are kept up-to-date and do not have any security vulnerabilities.

## Secure Development Environment
A secure development environment includes multiple stages and typically includes different systems used for each stage. 

* **Development**: Developers will use an isolated environment to create the application to make sure bugs do not spill into other projects. Version control is used at this step.
* **Test**: Testers will test the application for bugs and security vulnerabilities. 
* **Staging**: Simulates the production environment and is used to late-stage testing.
* **Production**: The application goes live as the final product.
* **Quality Assurance (QA)**: Used throughout the lifetime of the project. Ensures that the application keeps a high level of quality. 

## Web Server Logs
[[4. Logging and Monitoring#Network Logs|Web server logs]] typically log activity on the server. These web server logs will show normal activity, such as HTTP requests from users and the server’s responses. If your organization owns or controls the server, administrators will have access to the web server logs.