In addition to SQLi attacks, many other attacks target server applications such as those hosted on web servers. Web servers are highly susceptible to several types of attacks because they commonly accept data from users.

## Memory Vulnerabilities
Many application attacks take advantage of vulnerabilities in a system’s memory or buffers. Because of this, developers need to use secure memory management techniques within their code.

* **Memory Leak**: Bug that causes the app to consume more and more memory, after a long time it can crash the OS
* **Buffer Overflows**: A buffer overflow occurs when an application receives more input, or different input, than it expects. The result is an error that exposes system memory that would otherwise be protected and inaccessible. Hard to do nowadays with all the safety measures in the OS
* **Integer Overflow**: Occurs when an application receives a numeric value that is too big for the application to handle, can also happen when the wrong signednes is used.

## Other Injection Attacks
Other types of injection attacks include:

* **DLL Injection**: An attack that injects a DLL into a system’s memory and causes it to run. 
* **LDAP Injection**: Sometimes possible when a web application is used to query an LDAP-based database.
* **XML Injection**: It is extensible, meaning that it supports the use of any user-defined tags to describe data. Can be used to create users, etc.

## Directory Traversal
*Directory traversal* is a specific type of injection attack that attempts to access a file by including the full directory path or traversing the directory structure on a computer.

## Cross-Site Scripting
*Cross-site scripting (XSS)* is a web application vulnerability that allows attackers to inject scripts into webpages. This generally occurs in one of two ways:

* **Reflected XSS**: Malicious script from a URL executes immediately in the victim's browser, stealing data or hijacking sessions. Not permanent
* **Stored XSS**: Malicious script is permanently stored on the target server and executed for every user visiting the infected page. Persistent 
